The name Canny refers to John F. Canny,
who developed this edge detection algorithm in 1986.
With edge detection, the goal is to identify the boundaries of an object in an image.
So, to do that, first,
I'll convert to grayscale. All right.
And next, I'll compute the gradient.
Nice. Okay. So now,
you're looking at the gradient of my world,
where the brightness of each pixel
corresponds to the strength of the gradient at that point.
We're going to find edges by tracing out the pixels that follow the strongest gradients.
All right. But, the gradient world is a little scary.
So, let's go back to color.
By identifying edges, we can more easily detect objects by their shape.
So, what exactly is an edge?
Let's first get some intuition by having a look at
the parameters for the OpenCV Canny function. You'll call it like this.
In this case, I'm applying the Canny function to an image
called gray and the output will be another image called edges.
Low threshold and high threshold determine how strong the edges must be to be detected.
You can think of the strength of an edge as being defined by how
different the values are in adjacent pixels in the image;
really just the strength of the gradient.
Next, I'll show you how that works,
so that you have a clear picture of what's going on under the hood
when you use the Canny edge detection method in OpenCV.